applications: asset_tracker_v2: Add docs for application and data module (#6685)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: applications/asset_tracker_v2/doc/data_module.rst

.. _asset_tracker_v2_data_module:

Data module
###########

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The data module gathers data that has been sampled by other module in the system and stores it into ringbuffers.
It keeps track of data that has been requested by the :ref:`asset_tracker_v2_app_module` and decides when data is sent cloud.

.. note::
   The data module will undergo substantial refactoring soon. Due to this, some of its features are not currently documented.

Features
********

This section documents the features implemented by the module.

Requested data types
====================

> The data module maintans a list of requested data types that is updated every time a sample request of type :c:enum:`APP_EVT_DATA_GET` is sent from the :ref:`asset_tracker_v2_app_module`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data module maintains a list of requested data types that is updated every time a sample request of type :c:enum:`APP_EVT_DATA_GET` is sent from the :ref:`asset_tracker_v2_app_module`.
```

> When all the data types present in the aforementioned list have been received by the module the event :c:enum:`DATA_EVT_DATA_READY` is sent out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When all the data types present in the list is received by the module, the event :c:enum:`DATA_EVT_DATA_READY` is sent out.
```

> This event is a signal that all data has been gathered for a particlar sample request and that it can be encoded and sent to cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This event is a signal that all data is gathered for a particular sample request, then it can be encoded and sent to the cloud.
```

> The :c:enum:`APP_EVT_DATA_GET` event also carries a sample timeout. This timeout is used by the data module to trigger a :c:enum:`DATA_EVT_DATA_READY` event, even if not all types in the requested list have been receieved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :c:enum:`APP_EVT_DATA_GET` event also carries a sample timeout.
This timeout is used by the data module to trigger a :c:enum:`DATA_EVT_DATA_READY` event, even if not all types in the requested list have been received.
```

> This acts as a failsafe in case some modules do not manage to sample the requested data in time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This acts as a fail-safe in case some modules do not manage to sample the requested data in time.
```

> For example, it's not always possible to acquire a GNSS fix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, it is not always possible to acquire a GNSS fix.
```

.. note::
   The module can decide to not send data after a sample request. If this happens, data is still persisted in the ringbuffers and will be sent to cloud in batch messages after the next sample request, given that the application is connected to cloud.
   The ringbuffers in the module are implemented so that the oldest entry will always be overwritten in case the buffer is filled.

Device configuration
====================

> Upon boot, the data module distributes the current values of the applications :ref:`Real-time configurations <real_time_configs>` to the rest of the application with the :c:enum`DATA_EVT_CONFIG_INIT` event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the application boots, the data module distributes the current values of the applications :ref:`Real-time configurations <real_time_configs>` to the rest of the application with the :c:enum:`DATA_EVT_CONFIG_INIT` event.
```

These value are persisted in flash between reboots using the :ref:`settings_api` and updated each time the application receives a new configuration update.
If a new configuration update is received from cloud, the data module distributes the new configurations values via the :c:enum:`DATA_EVT_CONFIG_READY` event.

> The default values of the :ref:`Real-time configurations <real_time_configs>` can be altered compile time using the compile time options listed in :ref:`Default device configuration options <default_config_values>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default values of the :ref:`Real-time configurations <real_time_configs>` can alter the compile time using the compile time options listed in the :ref:`Default device configuration options <default_config_values>`.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _default_config_values:
```

Configuration options
*********************

> .. _default_config_values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. _CONFIG_DATA_DEVICE_MODE:

> CONFIG_DATA_DEVICE_MODE - This configuration sets the device mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CONFIG_DATA_DEVICE_MODE
       This configuration sets the device mode.
```

Reviewer: Please change it for all configuration options as it is not rendered properly.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_ACTIVE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS:

CONFIG_DATA_ACTIVE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS - This configuration sets the active mode timeout value.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_MOVEMENT_RESOLUTION_SECONDS:

CONFIG_DATA_MOVEMENT_RESOLUTION_SECONDS - This configuration sets the movement resolution timeout value.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_MOVEMENT_TIMEOUT_SECONDS:

CONFIG_DATA_MOVEMENT_TIMEOUT_SECONDS - This configuration sets the movement timeout value.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_ACCELEROMETER_THRESHOLD:

CONFIG_DATA_ACCELEROMETER_THRESHOLD - This configuration sets the accelerometer threshold value.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_GNSS_TIMEOUT_SECONDS:

CONFIG_DATA_GNSS_TIMEOUT_SECONDS - This configuration sets the GNSS timeout value.

Module states
*************

The data module has an internal state machine with the following states:

> * ``STATE_CLOUD_DISCONNECTED`` - Cloud is disconnected. Data transmission will not be attempted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``STATE_CLOUD_DISCONNECTED`` - Cloud is disconnected. Data transmission is not attempted.
```

> * ``STATE_CLOUD_CONNECTED`` - Cloud is connected. Data transmission will be attempted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``STATE_CLOUD_CONNECTED`` - Cloud is connected. Data transmission is attempted.
```

.. _asset_tracker_v2_data_module:

Data module
###########

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The data module gathers data that have been sampled by other module in the system and stores it into ringbuffers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The data module gathers data that has been sampled by other module in the system and stores it into ringbuffers.
```

> It keeps track of data that have been requested by the :ref:`asset_tracker_v2_app_module` and decides when data is sent cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It keeps track of data that has been requested by the :ref:`asset_tracker_v2_app_module` and decides when data is sent cloud.
```

.. note::

>    The data module will undergo substatial refactoring in the nearest feature. Due to this, a some of its features are not currently documented.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The data module will undergo substantial refactoring soon. Due to this, some of its features are not currently documented.
```

Features
********

> This section documents the various features implemented by the module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section documents the features implemented by the module.
```

Requested data types
====================

The data module maintans a list of requested data types that is updated every time a sample request of type :c:enum:`APP_EVT_DATA_GET` is sent from the :ref:`asset_tracker_v2_app_module`.

> When all the data types present in the aforementioned list have been received by module the event :c:enum:`DATA_EVT_DATA_READY` is sent out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When all the data types present in the aforementioned list have been received by the module the event :c:enum:`DATA_EVT_DATA_READY` is published.
```

This event is a signal that all data has been gathered for a particlar sample request and that it can be encoded and sent to cloud.
The :c:enum:`APP_EVT_DATA_GET` event also carries a sample timeout. This timeout is used by the data module to trigger a :c:enum:`DATA_EVT_DATA_READY` event, even if not all types in the requested list have been receieved.

> This acts as a failsafe in case some module that data is expected from malfunctions or does not manage to sample the requested data in time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This acts as a failsafe in case some modules do not manage to sample the requested data in time.
For example, it's not always possible to acquire a GNSS fix.
```

.. note::

>    The module can decide to not send data after a sample request. If this happens, data is still persisted in the ringbuffers and will be sent to cloud in batch messages after the next sample request given that the application is connected to cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The module can decide to not send data after a sample request. If this happens, data is still persisted in the ringbuffers and will be sent to cloud in batch messages after the next sample request, given that the application is connected to cloud.
```

   The ringbuffers in the module are implemented so that the oldest entry will always be overwritten in case the buffer is filled.

Device configuration
====================

Upon boot, the data module distributes the current values of the applications :ref:`Real-time configurations <real_time_configs>` to the rest of the application with the :c:enum`DATA_EVT_CONFIG_INIT` event.
These value are persisted in flash between reboots using the :ref:`settings_api` and updated each time the application receives a new configuration update.
If a new configuration update is received from cloud, the data module distributes the new configurations values via the :c:enum:`DATA_EVT_CONFIG_READY` event.
The default values of the :ref:`Real-time configurations <real_time_configs>` can be altered compile time using the compile time options listed in :ref:`Default device configuration options <default_config_values>`.

Configuration options
*********************

.. _default_config_values:

.. _CONFIG_DATA_DEVICE_MODE:

> CONFIG_DATA_DEVICE_MODE - Configuration for the device mode
>    This configuration sets the device mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CONFIG_DATA_DEVICE_MODE - This configuration sets the device mode.
```

Reviewer 2: These descriptions and below fix the repetition repetition. The sentence below does not contain additional information and can be removed for brevity.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_ACTIVE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS:

> CONFIG_DATA_ACTIVE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS - Configuration for Active mode
>    This configuration sets the Active mode timeout value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CONFIG_DATA_ACTIVE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS - This configuration sets the active mode timeout value.
```

.. _CONFIG_DATA_MOVEMENT_RESOLUTION_SECONDS:

> CONFIG_DATA_MOVEMENT_RESOLUTION_SECONDS - Configuration for Movement resolution
>    This configuration sets the Movement resolution timeout value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CONFIG_DATA_MOVEMENT_RESOLUTION_SECONDS - This configuration sets the movement resolution timeout value.
```

.. _CONFIG_DATA_MOVEMENT_TIMEOUT_SECONDS:

> CONFIG_DATA_MOVEMENT_TIMEOUT_SECONDS - Configuration for Movement timeout
>    This configuration sets the Movement timeout value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CONFIG_DATA_MOVEMENT_TIMEOUT_SECONDS - This configuration sets the movement timeout value.
```

.. _CONFIG_DATA_ACCELEROMETER_THRESHOLD:

> CONFIG_DATA_ACCELEROMETER_THRESHOLD - Configuration for Accelerometer threshold
>    This configuration sets the Accelerometer threshold value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CONFIG_DATA_ACCELEROMETER_THRESHOLD - This configuration sets the accelerometer threshold value.
```

.. _CONFIG_DATA_GNSS_TIMEOUT_SECONDS:

> CONFIG_DATA_GNSS_TIMEOUT_SECONDS - Configuration for GNSS timeout
>    This configuration sets the GNSS timeout value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CONFIG_DATA_GNSS_TIMEOUT_SECONDS - This configuration sets the GNSS timeout value.
```

Module states
*************

The data module has an internal state machine with the following states:

* ``STATE_CLOUD_DISCONNECTED`` - Cloud is disconnected. Data transmission will not be attempted.
* ``STATE_CLOUD_CONNECTED`` - Cloud is connected. Data transmission will be attempted.
* ``STATE_SHUTDOWN`` - The module has been shut down after receiving a request from the utility module.

Module events
*************

> The :file:`asset_tracker_v2/src/events/data_module_event.h` header file contains a list of various events sent by the module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The :file:`asset_tracker_v2/src/events/data_module_event.h` header file contains a list of events sent by the module.
```

.. _asset_tracker_v2_data_module:

Data module
###########

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The data module gathers data that has been sampled by other modules in the system and stores it into ring buffers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data module gathers data that has been sampled by another modules in the system and stores it into the ring buffers.
```

This acts as a fail-safe in case some modules do not manage to sample the requested data in time.
For example, it is not always possible to acquire a GNSS fix.

.. note::
   The module can decide not to send data after a sample request.
   If this happens, data is persisted in the ring buffers and sent to the cloud in batch messages after the next sample request, in case the application is connected to the cloud.
   The ring buffers in the module are implemented so that the oldest entry is always overwritten in case the buffer is filled.

Device configuration
====================

When the application boots, the data module distributes the current values of the applications :ref:`Real-time configurations <real_time_configs>` to the rest of the application with the :c:enum:`DATA_EVT_CONFIG_INIT` event.
These value are persisted in flash between reboots using the :ref:`settings_api` and updated each time the application receives a new configuration update.
If a new configuration update is received from the cloud, the data module distributes the new configuration values using the :c:enum:`DATA_EVT_CONFIG_READY` event.

> The default values of the :ref:`Real-time configurations <real_time_configs>` can be altered compile time using the compile time options listed in :ref:`Default device configuration options <default_config_values>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default values of the :ref:`Real-time configurations <real_time_configs>` can alter the compile time using the compile time options listed in the :ref:`Default device configuration options <default_config_values>`.
```

> The default values of the :ref:`Real-time configurations <real_time_configs>` can be altered compile time using the compile time options listed in :ref:`Default device configuration options <default_config_values>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can alter the default values of the :ref:`Real-time configurations <real_time_configs>` compile time using the options listed in the :ref:`Default device configuration options <default_config_values>`.
```
